a nearby lake is guarded by a six-foot
monkey eating monitor lizard trust
monkeys to find a way to reach the
delicious lily flowers safe from the
monitor lizard only the Highborne the
dominant in the monkey society are
allowed to use these overhanging
branches those at the bottom of the
social scale have to take bigger risks
they take turns to watch for the monitor
lizard while the guards are alert it's
pretty safe these lower ranking toad
macaques will actually dive for lily
roots and bulbs little of this amazing
behavior is instinctive it was
discovered learned and passed down the
generations keeping an eye out for your
family and friends is an important part
of their culture too instincts in
animals generally are automatic
restrictive but reliable but learning
can be forgotten and concentration can
naps
what must a monkey guard feel when a
youngster is lost on their watch